Cqt 271 update spec with newly added instructions (#79)
QuTech-Delft/cQASM-spec: docs/language_specification/statements/instructions/control_instructions/barrier_instruction.md

The **`barrier`** instruction is a single-qubit control instruction
that is used to constrain the optimization of a scheduler.
It tells a scheduler that instructions on the specified qubit(s) cannot be scheduled across the barrier.
See the [**`wait`** instruction](wait_instruction.md), to impose a time delay following a barrier.

The general form of the **`barrier`** instruction is as follows:

!!! info ""

    &emsp;**`barrier`** _qubit-argument_

??? info "Grammar for **`barrier`** instruction"
    
    _barrier-instruction_:  
    &emsp; __`barrier`__ _qubit-argument_

    _qubit-argument_:  
    &emsp; _qubit-variable_  
    &emsp; _qubit-index_

    _qubit-variable_:  
    &emsp; _identifier_

    _qubit-index_:  
    &emsp; _index_

!!! note

>     The **`barrier`** instruction accepts
>     [SGMQ notation](../single-gate-multiple-qubit-notation.md), similar to gates.
>     Note, however, that SGMQ notation is _syntactic sugar_ to write a on a single line
>     the application of a single instruction to multiple qubits.
>     In general, a compiler will unpack this notation to separate consectutive
>     single-qubit instructions on the respective qubits.
>     SGMQ notation does not guarantee simultaneity.
>     This will depend on the scheduling optimization that is applied during the compilation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The **`barrier`** instruction accepts
    [SGMQ notation](../single-gate-multiple-qubit-notation.md).
    SGMQ notation allows you to express the application of an instruction to multiple qubits.
    However, SGMQ notation does not guarantee simultaneity.
    In general, a compiler will unpack this notation to separate consecutive
    single-qubit instructions on each respective qubit.
    This will depend on the scheduling optimization that is applied during the compilation process.
```

>     For certain backends, groups of consecutive **`barrier`** instructions are linked together to form a _uniform_
>     barrier, across which no instructions on the specified qubits can be scheduled.
>     Note that one can create a group of consecutive **`barrier`** instructions, _i.e._ a uniform barrier, using SGMQ
>     notation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For certain backends,
    groups of consecutive **`barrier`** instructions are linked together to form a _uniform_ barrier,
    across which no instructions on the specified qubits can be scheduled.
    Note that one can create a group of consecutive **`barrier`** instructions, _i.e._ a _uniform_ barrier,
    using SGMQ notation.
```

!!! example

    === "Single qubit"
    
        ```linenums="1", hl_lines="3"
        qubit q
        X q
        barrier q
        X q
        ```
    
    === "Multiple qubits"
    
        ```linenums="1", hl_lines="3"
        qubit[3] q
        X q[0]
        barrier q[0, 1]
        H q[0]
        X q[2]
        H q[1]
        ```

In the examples above it is shown how the **`barrier`** instruction can be used with a single qubit and multiple qubits.
In the case of the single qubit,
an optimizer would generally fuse the two **`X`** gates into a single identity gate, **`I`**.

> However, because of the presence of the **`barrier`** instruction the user explicitly states that the instructions on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, because of the presence of the **`barrier`** instruction, the user explicitly states that the instructions on
```

**`q`** are not permitted to be optimized across the barrier.
The second example shows that a barrier can be placed for multiple qubits.
Note that the **`barrier`** instruction is applied to qubits **`q[0]`** and **`q[1]`**.
Qubit **`q[2]`** can be optimized freely across this circuit, _i.e._, be scheduled before or after the barrier. 

The following code snippet illustrates how the **`barrier`** instruction might be used in context.

```linenums="1", hl_lines="9 12 19"
version 3.0

qubit[2] q
init q

// Phi+ state
H q[0]
CNOT q[0], q[1]
barrier q
b[0,1] = measure q

barrier q
reset q

// Psi+ state
H q[0]
X q[1]
CNOT q[0], q[1]
barrier q
b[2, 3] = measure q
```

In the above code snippet, the $\Phi_{+}$ and $\Psi_{+}$ Bell states are generated and measured, successively.
The **`barrier`** instruction is used to guarantee that the
[**`measure`** instruction](../non_unitary_instructions/measure_instruction.md) is scheduled _after_ the respective
states have been generated. 

> Moreover, an extra **`barrier`** instruction is used to separate the generation and measurement of the two Bell states.

Reviewer: Not really part of this PR. Just a question out of curiosity. `measure` should behave as a `barrier`, shouldn't it? I mean, from a programmer point of view, it wouldn't make any sense that an optimizer could optimize code accross a `measure` instruction.

Reviewer: I think that should be taken with delicacy, probably even as an epic.
- We are talking about the semantics of `measure` and `reset` (imagine you reset a qubit and an  optimizer doesn't treat it as a barrier and moves a gate over that qubit prior to the reset instruction).
- I'm seeing also that `SingleQubitGatesMerger::merge` doesn't treat `measure` and `reset` as barriers.
- From a design/implementation point of view you may need some multiple inheritance/tagging here. I.e., measure, reset, barrier, and wait instructions are non-gate instructions, but they may also implement a (and inherit from) `BarrierBase` interface.

Author: I have created an [issue for this on the backlog](https://qutech-sd.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/CQT/boards/18/backlog?selectedIssue=CQT-325).
